Revise configuration related documents (#905)
scalar-labs/scalardb: docs/configurations.md

# ScalarDB Configurations

This document describes the configurations for ScalarDB.

## Transaction manager configurations

> ScalarDB has several transaction manager implementations, and you can specify the transaction manager implementation by the `scalar.db.transaction_manager` property.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ScalarDB has several transaction manager implementations, such as Consensus Commit, gRPC, and JDBC, and you can specify one of the implementations with the `scalar.db.transaction_manager` property.
```

| scalar.db.consensus_commit.async_rollback.enabled       | Whether or not the rollback phase is executed asynchronously.                  | The value of `scalar.db.consensus_commit.async_commit.enabled`    |

#### Underlying Storage/Database Configurations

Consensus Commit has the storage abstraction layer and supports multiple underlying storages.
You can specify the storage implementation by the `scalar.db.storage` property.

The following describes the configurations available for each storage.

- For Cassandra, the following configurations are available:

| name                     | description                              | default |
|--------------------------|------------------------------------------|---------|
| scalar.db.storage        | `cassandra` should be specified.         | -       |
| scalar.db.contact_points | Comma separated contact points.          |         |
| scalar.db.contact_port   | Port number for all the contact points . |         |
| scalar.db.username       | Username to access the database.         |         |
| scalar.db.password       | Password to access the database.         |         |

> - For Cosmos DB, the following configurations are available:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- For Cosmos DB for NoSQL, the following configurations are available:
```
It might be better to use a clear/concrete name since Cosmos DB means several kinds of databases. I think it is enough to describe the clear name once here.

What do you think?

| scalar.db.username                                      | Username to access the database.                                                                                                                                             |                              |
| scalar.db.password                                      | Password to access the database.                                                                                                                                             |                              |
| scalar.db.jdbc.connection_pool.min_idle                 | Minimum number of idle connections in the connection pool.                                                                                                                   | 20                           |
| scalar.db.jdbc.connection_pool.max_idle                 | Maximum number of connections that can remain idle in the connection pool.                                                                                                   | 50                           |

> | scalar.db.jdbc.connection_pool.max_total                | maximum total number of idle and borrowed connections that can be active at the same time for the connection pool. Use a negative value for no limit.                        | 100                          |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| scalar.db.jdbc.connection_pool.max_total                | Maximum total number of idle and borrowed connections that can be active at the same time for the connection pool. Use a negative value for no limit.                        | 100                          |
```
This is a very minor thing. Update lowercase to uppercase at the first character of the sentence.

| scalar.db.jdbc.isolation_level                          | Isolation level for JDBC. Either `READ_UNCOMMITTED` or `READ_COMMITTED` or `REPEATABLE_READ` or `SERIALIZABLE` can be specified.                                             | Underlying database specific |
| scalar.db.jdbc.table_metadata.schema                    | Schema name for the table metadata used for ScalarDB.                                                                                                                        | scalardb                     |
| scalar.db.jdbc.table_metadata.connection_pool.min_idle  | Minimum number of idle connections in the connection pool for the table metadata.                                                                                            | 5                            |
| scalar.db.jdbc.table_metadata.connection_pool.max_idle  | Maximum number of connections that can remain idle in the connection pool for the table metadata.                                                                            | 10                           |

> | scalar.db.jdbc.table_metadata.connection_pool.max_total | maximum total number of idle and borrowed connections that can be active at the same time for the connection pool for the table metadata. Use a negative value for no limit. | 25                           |
> | scalar.db.jdbc.admin.connection_pool.min_idle           | minimum number of idle connections in the connection pool for admin.                                                                                                         | 5                            |
> | scalar.db.jdbc.admin.connection_pool.max_idle           | maximum number of connections that can remain idle in the connection pool for admin.                                                                                         | 10                           |
> | scalar.db.jdbc.admin.connection_pool.max_total          | maximum total number of idle and borrowed connections that can be active at the same time for the connection pool for admin. Use a negative value for no limit.              | 25                           |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| scalar.db.jdbc.table_metadata.connection_pool.max_total | Maximum total number of idle and borrowed connections that can be active at the same time for the connection pool for the table metadata. Use a negative value for no limit. | 25                           |
| scalar.db.jdbc.admin.connection_pool.min_idle           | Minimum number of idle connections in the connection pool for admin.                                                                                                         | 5                            |
| scalar.db.jdbc.admin.connection_pool.max_idle           | Maximum number of connections that can remain idle in the connection pool for admin.                                                                                         | 10                           |
| scalar.db.jdbc.admin.connection_pool.max_total          | Maximum total number of idle and borrowed connections that can be active at the same time for the connection pool for admin. Use a negative value for no limit.              | 25                           |
```
Ditto.

When you use SQLite3 as a JDBC database, you need to set `scalar.db.contact_points` as follows.

```properties
scalar.db.contact_points=jdbc:sqlite:your-db.sqlite3?busy_timeout=10000
```

Unlike other JDBC databases, [SQLite3 does not fully support concurrent access](https://www.sqlite.org/lang_transaction.html).
In order to avoid frequent errors caused internally by the [`SQLITE_BUSY`](https://www.sqlite.org/rescode.html#busy),
it is recommended to set a [`busy_timeout`](https://www.sqlite.org/c3ref/busy_timeout.html) parameter.

> ##### Multi-storage

Author: I prefer `Multi-storage support`. Thanks.

ScalarDB supports a Multi-storage where you can use multiple storage implementations at the same time.

> You can use Multi-storage by specifying `multi-storage` for the `scalar.db.storage` property.

Author: I like the first one. Thanks.

For the details of the Multi-storage, see [Multi-storage Transactions](multi-storage-transactions.md).

> ### ScalarDB Server (gRPC)

Reviewer: Shouldn't we mark it as deprecated? (or recommend users to use ScalarDB Cluster?)
Also, can you add a section for ScalarDB Cluster?

Author: Good point. Actually, I was hesitant to mention ScalarDB Cluster here because this is the document of ScalarDB that is a community edition (OSS) product, but ScalarDB Cluster is an enterprise edition product. I think it would be good to discuss the differentiation between the community and enterprise editions. Thank you.

Author: As per our offline discussion, I will proceed to mark ScalarDB Server as deprecated and will also add a note about ScalarDB Cluster. Thanks.

> [ScalarDB Server](scalardb-server.md) is a standalone server that provides a gRPC interface to Scalar DB.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[ScalarDB Server](scalardb-server.md) is a standalone server that provides a gRPC interface to ScalarDB.
```
Update product name.

|---------------------------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------|------------------------|
| scalar.db.transaction_manager                           | `grpc` should be specified.                               | -                      |
| scalar.db.contact_points                                | ScalarDB Server host.                                     |                        |
| scalar.db.contact_port                                  | Port number for ScalarDB Server.                          | 60051                  |
| scalar.db.grpc.deadline_duration_millis                 | The deadline duration for gRPC connections.               | 60000 (60 seconds)     |
| scalar.db.grpc.max_inbound_message_size                 | The maximum message size allowed for a single gRPC frame. | The gRPC default value |
| scalar.db.grpc.max_inbound_metadata_size                | The maximum size of metadata allowed to be received.      | The gRPC default value |

For the details of ScalarDB Server, see [ScalarDB Server](scalardb-server.md).

> ### JDBC transactions

Reviewer 2: I think there are several notes for `JDBC transactions` as follows.

1. You can use `JDBC transactions` with the JDBC database only (i.e., we cannot use `JDBC transactions` with some NoSQL databases).
2. You cannot use `JDBC transactions` with `Multi-storage transactions` even if the all underlying databases are JDBC databases.

Especially, I think the second one (limitation for `Multi-storage transactions`) is a bit confusing. So, I think it would be better to add a note for `Multi-storage transactions` in this section.

What do you think?

Author: Actually, as described in `configurations.md`, the storage property `scalar.db.storage ` is specifically for the Consensus Commit transaction manager. So other transaction manager implementations (`jdbc` and `grpc`) do not use it.

Previously, this was not explicitly mentioned, but in the updated `configurations.md` included in this PR, I think we have made this clear. Given this, do you think we still need to add the special note in the multi-storage transaction document?

Reviewer 2: Thank you for the explanation! I understood the `scalar.db.storage` is a dedicated configuration for Consensus Commit.

I didn't notice the `scalar.db.storage` is a specific configuration for Consensus Commit. 

So, I think the special note is not necessary.

By the way, I was just curious, but if we specify both `scalar.db.transaction_manager=jdbc` and `scalar.db.storage=mutli-storage`, does ScalarDB ignore the values of `scalar.db.storage`?

Reviewer: Not for this PR, but I think it is probably better to throw an exception if `scalar.db.transaction_manager=jdbc` and `scalar.db.storage` are both set.

Author: > By the way, I was just curious, but if we specify both scalar.db.transaction_manager=jdbc and scalar.db.storage=mutli-storage, does ScalarDB ignore the values of scalar.db.storage?

@kota2and3kan Basically, that's correct. But, there is an exception for this. I will explain it along with my response to @feeblefakie's comment.

> Not for this PR, but I think it is probably better to throw an exception if scalar.db.transaction_manager=jdbc and scalar.db.storage are both set.

@feeblefakie @kota2and3kan This is also related to @kota2and3kan's question.

In fact, there is a scenario where both configurations are used. This happens when you use both the JDBC transaction manager and the storage API directly. Although this seems like a very rare case, it's technically possible. While the JDBC transaction manager doesn't use the `scalar.db.storage` property, `scalar.db.storage` is used by the storage API.

Reviewer 2: @brfrn169  
Ah, I see. Thank you for your answers!
I feel it is a little bit confusing for users... 
So, it might be better to separate properties for `DistributedTransaction` and `DistributedStorage` explicitly in the future.
(But, basically, users don't use Storage API directly. So, it might be OK to keep the current behavior.)

> Other than the default transaction manager Consensus Commit, ScalarDB supports JDBC transactions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can also use native JDBC transactions through ScalarDB when you only interact with one JDBC database. However, you cannot use most of ScalarDB features when you use JDBC transactions, which might defeat the purpose of using ScalarDB. So, please carefully consider your use case.
```

| scalar.db.username                                      | Username to access the database.                                                                                                                                             |                              |
| scalar.db.password                                      | Password to access the database.                                                                                                                                             |                              |
| scalar.db.jdbc.connection_pool.min_idle                 | Minimum number of idle connections in the connection pool.                                                                                                                   | 20                           |
| scalar.db.jdbc.connection_pool.max_idle                 | Maximum number of connections that can remain idle in the connection pool.                                                                                                   | 50                           |

> | scalar.db.jdbc.connection_pool.max_total                | maximum total number of idle and borrowed connections that can be active at the same time for the connection pool. Use a negative value for no limit.                        | 100                          |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| scalar.db.jdbc.connection_pool.max_total                | Maximum total number of idle and borrowed connections that can be active at the same time for the connection pool. Use a negative value for no limit.                        | 100                          |
```
Ditto.

| scalar.db.jdbc.isolation_level                          | Isolation level for JDBC. Either `READ_UNCOMMITTED` or `READ_COMMITTED` or `REPEATABLE_READ` or `SERIALIZABLE` can be specified.                                             | Underlying database specific |
| scalar.db.jdbc.table_metadata.schema                    | Schema name for the table metadata used for ScalarDB.                                                                                                                        | scalardb                     |
| scalar.db.jdbc.table_metadata.connection_pool.min_idle  | Minimum number of idle connections in the connection pool for the table metadata.                                                                                            | 5                            |
| scalar.db.jdbc.table_metadata.connection_pool.max_idle  | Maximum number of connections that can remain idle in the connection pool for the table metadata.                                                                            | 10                           |

> | scalar.db.jdbc.table_metadata.connection_pool.max_total | maximum total number of idle and borrowed connections that can be active at the same time for the connection pool for the table metadata. Use a negative value for no limit. | 25                           |
> | scalar.db.jdbc.admin.connection_pool.min_idle           | minimum number of idle connections in the connection pool for admin.                                                                                                         | 5                            |
> | scalar.db.jdbc.admin.connection_pool.max_idle           | maximum number of connections that can remain idle in the connection pool for admin.                                                                                         | 10                           |
> | scalar.db.jdbc.admin.connection_pool.max_total          | maximum total number of idle and borrowed connections that can be active at the same time for the connection pool for admin. Use a negative value for no limit.              | 25                           |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| scalar.db.jdbc.table_metadata.connection_pool.max_total | Mmaximum total number of idle and borrowed connections that can be active at the same time for the connection pool for the table metadata. Use a negative value for no limit. | 25                           |
| scalar.db.jdbc.admin.connection_pool.min_idle           | Minimum number of idle connections in the connection pool for admin.                                                                                                         | 5                            |
| scalar.db.jdbc.admin.connection_pool.max_idle           | Maximum number of connections that can remain idle in the connection pool for admin.                                                                                         | 10                           |
| scalar.db.jdbc.admin.connection_pool.max_total          | Maximum total number of idle and borrowed connections that can be active at the same time for the connection pool for admin. Use a negative value for no limit.              | 25                           |
```
Ditto.

When you use SQLite3 as a JDBC database, you need to set `scalar.db.contact_points` as follows.

```properties
scalar.db.contact_points=jdbc:sqlite:your-db.sqlite3?busy_timeout=10000
```

Unlike other JDBC databases, [SQLite3 does not fully support concurrent access](https://www.sqlite.org/lang_transaction.html).
In order to avoid frequent errors caused internally by the [`SQLITE_BUSY`](https://www.sqlite.org/rescode.html#busy),
it is recommended to set a [`busy_timeout`](https://www.sqlite.org/c3ref/busy_timeout.html) parameter.

> ## ScalarDB Server configurations

Reviewer: Ditto.

[ScalarDB Server](scalardb-server.md) is a standalone server that provides a gRPC interface to ScalarDB.

> This section explains the ScalarDB Server configurations.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This section explains ScalarDB Server configurations.
```

> In addition to [Transaction manager configurations](#transaction-manager-configurations) and [Other configurations](#other-configurations), the following configurations are available for ScalarDB Server:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In addition to [transaction manager configurations](#transaction-manager-configurations) and [other configurations](#other-configurations), the following configurations are available for ScalarDB Server:
```

> | name                                            | description                                                                                      | default                |
> |-------------------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|------------------------|
> | scalar.db.server.port                           | Port number for ScalarDB Server.                                                                 | 60051                  |
> | scalar.db.server.prometheus_exporter_port       | Prometheus exporter port. Prometheus exporter will not be started if a negative number is given. | 8080                   |
> | scalar.db.server.grpc.max_inbound_message_size  | The maximum message size allowed to be received.                                                 | The gRPC default value |
> | scalar.db.server.grpc.max_inbound_metadata_size | The maximum size of metadata allowed to be received.                                             | The gRPC default value |
> | scalar.db.server.decommissioning_duration_secs  | The decommissioning duration in seconds.                                                         | 30                     |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| Name                                            | Description                                                                                      | Default                |
|-------------------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|------------------------|
| `scalar.db.server.port`                           | Port number for ScalarDB Server.                                                                 | `60051`                  |
| `scalar.db.server.prometheus_exporter_port`       | Prometheus exporter port. Prometheus exporter will not be started if a negative number is given. | `8080`                   |
| `scalar.db.server.grpc.max_inbound_message_size`  | The maximum message size allowed to be received.                                                 | The gRPC default value |
| scalar.db.server.grpc.max_inbound_metadata_size | The maximum size of metadata allowed to be received.                                             | The gRPC default value |
| `scalar.db.server.decommissioning_duration_secs`  | The decommissioning duration in seconds.                                                         | `30`                     |
```

> For the details of ScalarDB Server, see [ScalarDB Server](scalardb-server.md).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For details about ScalarDB Server, see [ScalarDB Server](scalardb-server.md).
```

## Other configurations

This section explains other configurations.

Other configurations are available for ScalarDB:

> | name                                                           | description                                                                                                                                                                                                   | default            |
> |----------------------------------------------------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|--------------------|
> | scalar.db.metadata.cache_expiration_time_secs                  | ScalarDB has a metadata cache to reduce the number of requests to the database. This setting specifies the expiration time of the cache in seconds.                                                           | -1 (no expiration) |
> | scalar.db.active_transaction_management.expiration_time_millis | ScalarDB maintains ongoing transactions, which can be resumed using a transaction ID. This setting specifies the expiration time of this transaction management feature in milliseconds.                      | -1 (no expiration) |
> | scalar.db.default_namespace_name                               | The given namespace name will be used by operations that do not already specify a namespace. If you would like to use this setting with ScalarDB server, it needs to be set on the client-side configuration. |                    |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| Name                                                           | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                   | Default            |
|----------------------------------------------------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|--------------------|
| `scalar.db.metadata.cache_expiration_time_secs`                  | ScalarDB has a metadata cache to reduce the number of requests to the database. This setting specifies the expiration time of the cache in seconds.                                                           | `-1` (no expiration) |
| `scalar.db.active_transaction_management.expiration_time_millis` | ScalarDB maintains ongoing transactions, which can be resumed by using a transaction ID. This setting specifies the expiration time of this transaction management feature in milliseconds.                      | `-1` (no expiration) |
| `scalar.db.default_namespace_name`                               | The given namespace name will be used by operations that do not already specify a namespace. If you would like to use this setting with ScalarDB Server, configure this setting on the client-side configuration. |                    |
```

## Configuration examples

This section shows several configuration examples.

### Example 1

```
[App (ScalarDB Library with Consensus Commit)] ---> [Underlying storage/database]
```

> In this setting, App (ScalarDB Library with Consensus Commit) connects to the underlying storage/database (in this case Cassandra) directly.
> Note that this setting exists only for development purposes and is not recommended for production use.
> This is because the App needs to implement [scalar-admin](https://github.com/scalar-labs/scalar-admin) interface to take transactionally-consistent backups for ScalarDB, which requires an extra burden for users.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In this configuration, the app (ScalarDB Library with Consensus Commit) connects to the underlying storage/database (in this case, Cassandra) directly.
Note that this setting exists only for development purposes and is not recommended for production use.
This is because the app needs to implement the [scalar-admin](https://github.com/scalar-labs/scalar-admin) interface to take transactionally consistent backups for ScalarDB, which requires an extra burden for users.
```

> In this case, an example of configurations in App are as follows:
> ```properties

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In this case, an example of the configurations in the app is as follows:

```properties
```

# Transaction manager implementation
scalar.db.transaction_manager=consensus-commit

# Storage implementation
scalar.db.storage=cassandra

> # Comma separated contact points

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
# Comma-separated contact points
```

> scalar.db.contact_points=<cassandra host>

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
scalar.db.contact_points=<CASSANDRA_HOST>
```

# Credential information to access the database

> scalar.db.username=<username>
> scalar.db.password=<password>

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
scalar.db.username=<USERNAME>
scalar.db.password=<PASSWORD>
```

```

### Example 2

```
[App (ScalarDB Library with gRPC)] ---> [ScalarDB Server (ScalarDB Library with Consensus Commit)] ---> [Underlying storage/database]
```

> In this setting, App (ScalarDB Library with gRPC) connects to an underlying storage/database through ScalarDB Server.
> This setting is recommended for production use.
> This is because ScalarDB Server implements [scalar-admin](https://github.com/scalar-labs/scalar-admin) interface, which enables you to take transactionally-consistent backups for ScalarDB by pausing the ScalarDB Server.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In this configuration, the app (ScalarDB Library with gRPC) connects to an underlying storage/database through ScalarDB Server.
This configuration is recommended for production use because ScalarDB Server implements the [scalar-admin](https://github.com/scalar-labs/scalar-admin) interface, which enables you to take transactionally consistent backups for ScalarDB by pausing ScalarDB Server.
```

> In this case, an example of configurations for App is as follows:
> ```properties

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In this case, an example of configurations for the app is as follows:

```properties
```

# Transaction manager implementation
scalar.db.transaction_manager=grpc

# ScalarDB Server host

> scalar.db.contact_points=<ScalarDB Server host>

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
scalar.db.contact_points=<SCALARDB_SERVER_HOST>
```

# ScalarDB Server port

> scalar.db.contact_port=<ScalarDB Server port>

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
scalar.db.contact_port=<SCALARDB_SERVER_PORT>
```

```

> And an example of configurations for ScalarDB Server is as follows:
> ```properties

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
And an example of configurations for ScalarDB Server is as follows:

```properties
```

# Storage implementation
scalar.db.storage=cassandra

> # Comma separated contact points
> scalar.db.contact_points=<cassandra host>

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
# Comma-separated contact points
scalar.db.contact_points=<CASSANDRA_HOST>
```

# Credential information to access the database

> scalar.db.username=<username>
> scalar.db.password=<password>

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
scalar.db.username=<USERNAME>
scalar.db.password=<PASSWORD>
```

- For Cassandra, the following configurations are available:

| Name                       | Description                             | Default |
|----------------------------|-----------------------------------------|---------|
| `scalar.db.storage`        | `cassandra` must be specified.          | -       |
| `scalar.db.contact_points` | Comma-separated contact points.         |         |
| `scalar.db.contact_port`   | Port number for all the contact points. |         |
| `scalar.db.username`       | Username to access the database.        |         |
| `scalar.db.password`       | Password to access the database.        |         |

- For Cosmos DB for NoSQL, the following configurations are available:

| Name                                       | Description                                                                                    | Default    |
|--------------------------------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|------------|
| `scalar.db.storage`                        | `cosmos` must be specified.                                                                    | -          |

> | `scalar.db.contact_points`                 | Azure Cosmos DB endpoint the SDK will connect to.                                              |            |

Author: Fixed in c09b36dce290a4783aaeaf6dc0168a4d1103fcf4. Thanks.

| `scalar.db.server.grpc.max_inbound_metadata_size` | The maximum size of metadata allowed to be received.                                             | The gRPC default value |
| `scalar.db.server.decommissioning_duration_secs`  | The decommissioning duration in seconds.                                                         | `30`                   |

For details about ScalarDB Server, see [ScalarDB Server](scalardb-server.md).

## Other configurations

This section explains other configurations.

Other configurations are available for ScalarDB:

| Name                                                             | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                       | Default              |
|------------------------------------------------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|----------------------|

> | `scalar.db.metadata.cache_expiration_time_secs`                  | ScalarDB has a metadata cache to reduce the number of requests to the database. This setting specifies the expiration time of the cache in seconds.                                                               | `-1` (no expiration) |

Reviewer 4: This is not for this PR, but no expiration by default sounds a bit unsafe as, IIUC, other ScalarDB server instances keep old cache? 30 seconds by default or so might be safer
